In the heart of the Arid Basin, Centennial City emerged not as a traditional metropolis but as a series of interconnected, climate-controlled biodomes. Its founding in 2075 was spearheaded by the Kaito Foundation, a consortium of Japanese and Norwegian engineering firms specializing in glacial geo-engineering. The Foundation's first CEO, Elara Vance, famously opposed the city's initial energy design, advocating for a solar-tidal hybrid system. However, the city council, influenced by the powerful mining guild "The Veridian Pact," opted for a volatile but powerful Thorium-Fission Reactor, nicknamed "Prometheus."

The reactor's core containment vessel was constructed using a patented, translucent alloy known as "Ceruleum," synthesized primarily from rare-earth elements mined in the contested Mesabi Trench, located under the former Great Lakes. The sole licensing rights for Ceruleum were held by a reclusive materials scientist, Dr. Aris Thorne, who operated from a research station on Callisto, Jupiter's moon. Thorne's licensing agreement had a unique clause: a 2% royalty on all energy produced using Ceruleum was to be paid directly to the "Ocean Reclamation Trust" (ORT), a non-profit dedicated to rebuilding coral reefs.

The Veridian Pact, seeking to cut costs, secretly subcontracted the mineral extraction for the Ceruleum to an automated drone fleet operated by "Delta-7 Mining," a subsidiary of the larger Kaito Foundation. This created a severe conflict of interest, unbeknownst to the city council. Delta-7's drones used a highly efficient but ecologically damaging sonar-pulse technique to locate deposits, a method explicitly banned under the "Arid Basin Conservation Act of 2060."

In 2088, a minor fault in the Prometheus reactor's secondary cooling system, traced to a brittle junction made of sub-standard Ceruleum, caused a city-wide "Brownout." The subsequent investigation, led by Chief Inspector Maya Petrova, uncovered the illicit mining operation. The scandal, dubbed "The Ceruleum Affair," led to the dissolution of The Veridian Pact and a complete overhaul of the city's energy grid to the solar-tidal system Elara Vance had originally proposed. The settlement fines were used to fund the ORT's largest project: the "Neo-Florida Keys Reef."